'\" t
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.TH "GOVREADY" "1" "7 September 2014" "0.1" "govready man page"
.SH "NAME"
govready - Commandline toolkit for SCAP configuration scanning and collaborative FISMA IT Compliance
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BI govready " <command> [args]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBgovready\fR is a super easy to use commandline toolkit for running security scans on open source servers and software. Technically, \fBgovready\fR is a bash wrapper around OpenSCAP, a NIST certified SCAP toolkit.  \fBgovready\fR's workflow and user experience is similar to Git.
.PP
\fBgovready\fR will automatically install the required Linux libraries to run. Running 'govready init' will initialize the current directory to manage a sequence of security scans. The generated GovReadyfile stores various parameters for govready commands. \fBgovready\fR tries to make it easy to acquire and use SCAP-expressed machine-readable content, but you will need to tinker when using customized content. 
.SH "COMMANDS"
.br.
.TP 4
.I GovReadyfile
Contains parameters for commands such as default XCCDF file, CPE files, default profile, target folder to store scan results.
.TP
.B init
.br
Initializes a directory with a 'GovReadyfile' hidden '.govready' and other directories to manage a sequence of security scans.
.TP
.B version               
.br 
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B profiles              
.br
Show available baselines and profiles.
.TP
.B scan [<profile>]      
.br
Scan system against profile defined in \fIGovReadyfile\fR. Optionally scan against specified profile.
.TP
.B fix                   
.br
Apply most recent fix script.
.TP
.B rule <ruleid>         
Test a single rule from xccdf defined in \fIGovReadyfile\fR.
.br.
.TP
.B import <file>         
.br
Import SCAP content from the web into scap/content/ directory using wget.
.TP
.B install_epel          
.br
Install EPEL repo.
.TP
.B install_openscap      
.br
Install openSCAP.
.TP
.B install_ssg           
.br
Install openSCAP & scap-security-guide.
.TP
.B install_xsltproc      
.br
Install libxslt.
.TP
.B help                  
.br
Print this help.
.br
For help on any individual command run 'govready <command> -h'
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 4
.B govready init
.br
Initializes a directory for tracking a sequence of scans and create a \fIGovReadyfile\fR and convenience directories. 
.TP
.B govready scan
.br
Executes a system scan using the profile currently defined in \fIGovReadyfile\fR. 
.TP
.B govready scan usgcb-rhel6-server
.br
Executes a system scan using the profile usgcb-rhel6-server 
.TP
.B govready fix
.br
Run the most current fix file auto-generated by the most recent govready scan.
.TP
.B govready rule accounts_umask_bashrc
.br
Get information on rule "accounts_umask_bashrc" from most recent scan results and evaluates rule's current state.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "oscap" (1), " bash" (1)
.SH BUGS
If you feel you have found a bug in \govread\fR, please create an issue report at https://github.com/GovReady/govready/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Elin
.SH COPYRIGHT
\govready\fR is copyrighted Greg Elin (2014) and GovReady and distributed under the GPL 3.0 License. See LICENSE file in https://github.com/GovReady/govready for details.
.PP
The site includes also usage examples and other docs which are not covered by this manual page.
